# Text-Mining-and-Finance
UNDERSTANDING THE CRYPTO MARKET USING TWEETS


On social media, people claiming success from cryptocurrencies are everywhere. Dubai vacation, sports cars, expensive restaurants, and flashy watches: this is the life that successful “crypto” traders showcase. What seems to be an easy and guaranteed path to wealth, is, in fact, a lot more complicated than one might expect. The cryptocurrency market is extremely unstable and incredibly complicated to gauge and understand, due to cryptocurrencies themselves being highly volatile assets. Their value fluctuates immensely in the span of a few hours. As opposed to stocks, cryptocurrencies hold no intrinsic value. The value of a stock is intrinsically correlated with a company’s performance & profitability. For example, on the one hand, Amazon ($AMZN) and Netflix ($NFLX) saw their stock prices soar during the pandemic, due to an increase in online shopping and a higher demand for video streaming services. On the other hand, cryptocurrency price fluctuations are harder to capture. The reason why Bitcoin, priced at $20,118 on 12/12/2020, blew up to almost $40,000 on 07/01/2021 is quite nebulous. Rather, the price of cryptocurrencies is highly dependent on its trader/user base. If they are feeling confident or doubtful about the performance of bitcoin on a specific day, it causes its value to fluctuate either positively or negatively. Moreover, these cryptocurrencies are even more sensitive to what influential people think about them. More than once, Elon Musk’s tweets either made the price of some cryptocurrencies, such as Dogecoin ($DOGE), skyrocket or completely crash. Therefore, user sentiment can have a tremendous impact on the cryptocurrency market. Being able to gauge and quantify that sentiment could help us attain a better understanding of the cryptocurrency market and build a periodic “picture” of how the market is behaving in each timeframe.
